
CGMs are such an important part of acquisition that they get their own chapter. 

compounding growth is when the growth rate of a thing is related to the current value of that thing.

In suge terms, we have compounding growth when we get more users at a rate proportional to the current number of users on the product.

compounding growth is driven by two mechanisms; CGMs and network effects


# CGMs
a CGM is a mechanism where the output drives the input; in our case, the mechanism produces users, which in turn are fed into the mechanism to produce more users.

CGMs can be broken down into a few types:

- Direct
	- organic/inorganic
	- motivated by:
		- social capital
		- personal utility
		- financial
- Indirect
	- content-based
	- financial-based

## Currency
All CGMs operate on a kind of 'currency' - some underlying thing that drives the mechanism. There are three broad categories here;

Firstly, the currency can be users - i.e. the mechanism is driven soley by users. This is the case for example in a simple referral mechanism. these kinds of CGMs are called direct.

other CGMs do not use users as their currency and are indirect. Alternative currencies are content (i.e. blog posts, videos) or money (paid aids that pay for themselves in an exponential manner).


# Direct CGMs
direct CGMs operate directly on users - users refer other users. This can happen organically - i.e. users just pass along knowledge of the product by word of mouth - or inorganically, with prompting from the product.

something always motivates direct CGMs; there are broadly three motivations

The most desirable motivation is personal utility; this is where a user recommends a product to another because it would be useful. For example, I might say 'you should get whatsapp *so that I can text you*'. These have no marginal cost to the company on a per-user basis, so they are essentially 'free'. However, not all products suit themselves to this.

the next most desirable motivation is social capital; here, a user recommends a product because it 'makes them feel good' to do so - either because they feel helpful, or perhaps because it would make others think they are cool. 

finally, we can also set up a financially motivated incentive; this works best when both the referrer and the referree get some value out of it. This won't always be viable however, as the cost often outweighs the benefit to the business. Usually, successful FDCGMs happen when we can exploit an imbalance in perceived value; the user gets a lot of value out, but it costs the company little.

## Indirect CGMs
There are two kinds of indirect CGMs:


### money 
first, where currency=money; this is distinguished only from linear marketing in terms of:
a) the advertising produces exponentially more money than it costs and 
b) we reinvest this money into further advertising.

this can be either in terms of advertising, or in terms of sales people.

sales people are very good at selling complex products (think medicine)
they are expensive and inertial - hiring and firing is much more difficult than buying more adds (or stopping ad buys).

ads in comparison are much less expensive, and good at selling simple, obvious products. However, they don't work quite so well for communicating complexities.

For this reason, sometimes the two are combined; ads attract potential customers, who are they transferred to a sales contact who helps close the sale.
#### content 
content based CGMs are where the currency=content. Content can be generated by the company or by the user.

Company generated content is easier to start - we can just pay people to make it. However, it is difficult to scale. In contrast, user-generated content is difficult to start; if there is not a wide variety of existing content and corresponding userbase, there are very few incentives to make content. However, user generated content is much more scalable, as it often has negligible marginal cost.

Often, the approaches are combined; the content system is bootstrapped with company generated content, and then once a sufficient user-base has been fostered, the user generated content can take over.

What will AI do to this? well, obviously it will make content easier to generate, especially at scale. However, the quality may be lower.

Content also forms an excellent way to encourage retention - if users are sharing between each other, this can be a fantastic way to help them stay engaged.

# Life-cycle

CGMs go through three distinct phases:
1. inertial start - CGM is slow because we don't have enough 'fuel'
2. growth - CGM has sufficient fuel and user growth is rapid
3. starvation - we have reached most of our addressable market so the CGM runs out of users to attract.